3D Scanner

Precision laser cut DIY 3D scanner kit based on Arduino, LadyAda's motorshield, and FabScan.

This kit comes complete and ready to be assembled!
Scanning software available for Windows, Mac OS X, and Linux.  Or start scanning immediately with this Ubuntu Live CD pre-loaded with scanning software.

Link to scanner software download page

Open source Kivy based GUI is available click on this link to Github

To see actual scan data in the browser (WebGL support is required) click on this link:
Link to page with scan data of a clay sculpture
Stworek Sculpture (see the second image above) is about 4" (10cm) tall and 2.5" (6.5cm) wide but it is rather spiky so these are more like maximum outline dimensions. It was kiln fired but it is not glazed and surface is a natural pottery clay.

Scans were done in two external lighting conditions: Light - acquired under normal daytime conditions, some variation in textured color can be seen and Dark - external light blocked by a dark cover over the scanner.

Data is available in all scanning resolutions: Poor, Normal, Good and Best. However, due to *current limitations* of the 32-bit FabScan100 Windows version I could acquire complete scans in Poor and Normal resolutions, Good and Best are partial scans but should provide good reference for resolution comparison.

Good resolution data is about 180 degree scan so it could be practical to scan even with current 32-bit Windows version but it would require post-processing to glue the point clouds.

Best resolution data is just the sliver of about 10 degree scan so it is not practical to scan with the current software for Win32. There are two Best resolution files and the second (2) one has some interesting data captured, namely couple o bulging eyes and one indentation. You can view the data in a browser but I would recommend downloading it and using Meshlab for any comparisons.



HBBR Scanner Design

Scanner geometry is derived from FabScan project but it is completely redesigned mechanically to take advantage of inexpensive building materials and to fit in a flat rate box for shipping. Scanner rotating platform has been enhanced mechanically to use ball bearing for precise rotation and to offer support for larger and heavier objects. Platform rotation is provided by low power (very quiet operation) 5V stepper motor powered from USB and thus 
eliminating the need for a separate power supply.

Why is this a kit?

Because after testing scanner is broken down into 5 pieces for shipping and needs assembly.
I estimate assembly time to be 1 hour, enough to read the instructions and put it back together.
The assembly is documented on this page:
Link to the  HBBR Scanner Assembly page


Requirements to operate the scanner:

- PC computer running Windows (binaries available), OS X (binaries available) or Linux
- 2 open USB ports, 1  for camera and 1 for the Arduino

If you would like to take part in the development then the FabScan100 custom version is available on github in Machinoid repository. Latest changes include improved firmware with stepper algorithm providing higher torque,.

machinoid/FabScan100 

Windows binaries are available for download here:

http://www.combinatorialdesign.com/static/designs/HBBR_Scanner/tools/windows/FabScan100.zip


Mac OS X 10.7 and up binaries are available for download here:

http://www.combinatorialdesign.com/static/designs/HBBR_Scanner/tools/macos/FabScan100.zip


Kit contents:

As shown  in the first picture:

 - Precision laser cut scanner frame
 - 1.8 degree NEMA-17 stepper motor
 - Webcam
 - Laser line module
 - Arduino development board
 - Motor Shield


DISCLAIMER:
This kit is for experimental design and you need to know what you are doing when using
this device. I am not responsible for any damages. Pictures are for reference only, see kit 
content for details of what is included in this item.


I will be publishing detailed build log but if you would like to get involved just let me know.
Here is the link to the documentation page  HBBR Scanner
Ask any question before bidding!
